---
source: magicians
topic_id: 1874
title: Who would like to participate or be a contact for the Meta Ring?
author: jpitts
date: "2018-11-11"
category: Magicians > Primordial Soup
tags: [meta-magicians]
url: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/who-would-like-to-participate-or-be-a-contact-for-the-meta-ring/1874
views: 1446
likes: 8
posts_count: 5
---

# Who would like to participate or be a contact for the Meta Ring?

A key discussion about Meta Ring was started by [@wschwab](/u/wschwab): [Otherhoods: Some Thoughts After the Meta Ring](https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/otherhoods-some-thoughts-after-the-meta-ring/1820)

Many of us who participated in the Meta Ring in Prague are likely to want to continue the work. This thread is to formally begin a Ring around how the Magicians can self-organize.

Please post here if you’d like to be a contact person or organizer for the Meta Ring. Contacts are listed in the wiki page for each Ring.

Many of us involved in the Magicians would like to monitor the proceedings of Meta Ring as well; after all, this is where many of the processes for resource management will be formed. Findings from this Ring will be very applicable in other Rings as they self-organize! This means that communication from the Meta Ring will be an important process and the group will need someone to take responsibility for that.

Lastly, definitely post any thoughts about what you’d like the Meta Ring to work on. These can be listed in the wiki page.

## Replies

**jpitts** (2018-11-11):

Also I am wondering if “Meta Ring” is the best name for what we’re doing here. Now is the time to think about it.

I bring this up because I saw in a different Ring formation the use of key principles/methods in the term for the initiative.



    ![](https://ethereum-magicians.org/user_avatar/ethereum-magicians.org/jpitts/48/15152_2.png)
    [Ways of Self Organization in Decentralized Development Cycles](https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/ways-of-self-organization-in-decentralized-development-cycles/1713/22) [Product Management Ring](/c/working-groups/product-management-ring/32)



> Really excited and inspired to see this emerge. And I need this in so many projects I am involved in!
> One thought I have is the use of the terms Self Organization and Decentralized. I see why it is important to call out the key principles/methods of this initiative w/ the acronym SODC. But as this initiative starts to form an enduring Ring, perhaps the name of the Ring should only reflect the most essential part of the problem domain that is being addressed. Perhaps then: “Development Cycles Ri…

In “Meta Ring” the problem may be vagueness. A better term may be “Organization Ring” (of course ironic as we often refer to un-organization or dis-organization).

---

**boris** (2018-11-12):

I think “Meta Magicians” is just another fun name, which is meant to be very broad. It’s using Magicians to talk about Magicians.

I already did post the notes:



    ![](https://ethereum-magicians.org/user_avatar/ethereum-magicians.org/boris/48/68_2.png)
    [Breakout Session #2: Meta Magicians](https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/breakout-session-2-meta-magicians/1750) [Council Sessions](/c/happenings/council-sessions/15)



> I was facilitator and scribe, because I am bad at handing off scribing / sharing the HackMD link ahead of time.
> I believe anything that is “actionable” (listed under TODO) should get turned into github issues to see who is “assigned” in actually moving it forward.
> Long form discussion can / will still happen in forum – but updates / moving things forward / accountability in Github.
>
> Participants
> Rhys
> Aidan
> TJ Rush
> Bryant
>
> issuing invoices
> Brooke
> William
> Simona
> events - inclusivity
> Amy
> …

As I have signaled elsewhere, there are a number of real, actionable items that need to get done. I intend to move some of them into Github issues, and of course everyone is welcome to do the same.

Meta comment in the meta-magicians thread: I really think we need at least two humans for each ring who are first point of contacts / organizers. For rings / breakout sessions at council, we ended up having difficulty finding out who this was!

[Site feedback](https://ethereum-magicians.org/c/site-feedback) may still be useful for forum-specific feedback. There are meta-magicians topics in there now, tagged as such.

And yes, please do include me as a contact. I *don’t* need to be an organizer (not sure if we are listing this somehow separately?) but I do intend to participate in the topic.

---

**wschwab** (2018-11-15):

[@jpitts](/u/jpitts) I’m in. I don’t have much guidance about how this is going to work, but I’m happy to pitch in.

---

**ChainSafe** (2018-11-15):

[@jpitts](/u/jpitts), I would love to be involved however possible ![:slight_smile:](https://ethereum-magicians.org/images/emoji/twitter/slight_smile.png?v=9)

