---
source: magicians
topic_id: 23570
title: AllWalletDevs | call #33 | May 21, 2025
author: system
date: "2025-04-16"
category: Protocol Calls & happenings
tags: []
url: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/allwalletdevs-call-33-may-21-2025/23570
views: 162
likes: 0
posts_count: 2
---

# AllWalletDevs | call #33 | May 21, 2025

# AllWalletDevs, call #33, May 21st, 2025

- May 21, 2025, 17:00 UTC
- https://allwallet.dev

# Agenda

- Trillion Dollar Security
- Howâ€™s EIP-7702 going so far?
- Calculation of Base Fees

Other comments and resources

The zoom link will be sent to the facilitator (please fill in the email and telegram)

Facilitator email: [sam.wilson@ethereum.org](mailto:sam.wilson@ethereum.org)

 **ðŸ¤– config**

- Duration in minutes : 60
- Recurring meeting : true
- Call series : All Wallet Devs
- Occurrence rate : monthly
- Already a Zoom meeting ID : false # Set to true if you bring your own link â€“ WARNING the bot will not create a zoom ID and a summary or a Youtube video â€“ (make sure your zoom link meeting is auto recording youâ€™ll have to handle this yourself)
- Already on Ethereum Calendar : false # Set to true if this meeting is already on the Ethereum public calendar (will not create calendar event)
- Need YouTube stream links : false # Set to false if you donâ€™t want YouTube stream links created
- display zoom link in invite : true # Set to true to add the Zoom link to the Google Calendar invite description

[GitHub Issue](https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1479)

## Replies

**system** (2025-05-21):

### Meeting Summary:

No summary overview available

**Click to expand detailed summary**

The meeting began with Fredrik and Sam discussing the weather, noting the change from warm to cool temperatures. Sam mentioned that the meeting would start at 10:05 due to time constraints. The meeting, identified as number 33, was about to commence with a good number of participants present.

Fredrik presented the Trillion Dollar Security initiative, which aims to identify and improve security concerns across the Ethereum ecosystem. He explained that the Ethereum Foundation will act as a coordinator, collecting feedback from various ecosystem participants to compile a report on security improvements. Fredrik invited wallet developers and others to provide insights through a form or scheduled calls, emphasizing that the EFâ€™s role is to facilitate and provide resources rather than directly implement changes. The discussion concluded with Sam introducing the next topic, a retrospective on 7.7.0, inviting participants to share their experiences and insights.

The team discussed the rollout of Metamaskâ€™s 7.7.0.2 update, which is currently behind developer settings and will be rolled out to all users. Joao explained that users can upgrade within the wallet by going to account details, and the first use case is batch transactions via Dapps. Nicolas inquired about the process and timing of the upgrade, to which Joao clarified that the upgrade is triggered when a user attempts a batch transaction, prompting them to confirm the upgrade. Joao also mentioned that more features would be added to encourage upgrades, aiming for an improved user experience overall.

The team discussed the adoption of EIP-7702, noting that MetaMask has overtaken OKX as the top delegated contract with over 40,000 authorizations in two weeks. Lightclient highlighted the lack of comprehensive metrics for total value locked and transactions, suggesting a need to reach out to Dune Analytics for better data. Ahmad raised concerns about the discrepancies in how wallets calculate base fees and priority fees across different chains, proposing a standardization effort to address these inconsistencies. The conversation ended with a suggestion to continue the discussion asynchronously in the Discord channel.

### Next Steps:

- Fredrik to compile a report on security concerns and improvement areas for the Ethereum ecosystem based on collected feedback.
- Wallet developers to fill out the form or schedule a call with Fredrik to provide insights on security concerns and potential improvements.
- Metamask team to continue rolling out the force upgrade button for 7702 within the wallet.
- lightclient to seek a connection at Dune Analytics to improve tracking of 7702 adoption metrics.
- Ahmad to post a summary of the base fee calculation standardization issue in the Discord channel for further discussion.

### Recording Access:

- Join Recording Session (Passcode: #1n$UUXu)
- Download Transcript
- Download Chat

