---
source: magicians
topic_id: 24353
title: AllWalletDevs | call #34 | July 16, 2025
author: system
date: "2025-05-27"
category: Protocol Calls & happenings
tags: []
url: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/allwalletdevs-call-34-july-16-2025/24353
views: 164
likes: 1
posts_count: 2
---

# AllWalletDevs | call #34 | July 16, 2025

# AllWalletDevs, call #34, July 16th, 2025

- July 16, 2025, 17:00 UTC
- https://allwallet.dev

# Agenda

- TBD

Other comments and resources

The zoom link will be sent to the facilitator via email

Facilitator email: [sam.wilson@ethereum.org](mailto:sam.wilson@ethereum.org)

 **ü§ñ config**

- Duration in minutes : 60
- Recurring meeting : true
- Call series : All Wallet Devs
- Occurrence rate : monthly
- Already a Zoom meeting ID : false # Set to true if you bring your own link ‚Äì WARNING the bot will not create a zoom ID and a summary or a Youtube video ‚Äì (make sure your zoom link meeting is auto recording you‚Äôll have to handle this yourself)
- Already on Ethereum Calendar : false # Set to true if this meeting is already on the Ethereum public calendar (will not create calendar event)
- Need YouTube stream links : false # Set to false if you don‚Äôt want YouTube stream links created
- display zoom link in invite : true # Set to true to add the Zoom link to the Google Calendar invite description

[GitHub Issue](https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1558)

## Replies

**system** (2025-07-16):

### Meeting Summary:

The meeting focused on discussing a trillion-dollar security initiative and its progress, including UX improvements and wallet security rating standards. Vandan presented a new multi-chain API pattern that aims to improve wallet capabilities and network interactions, with an experimental version already available on MetaMask. The group discussed various implementation approaches for wallet APIs and documentation, including the possibility of creating a centralized documentation place on [ethereum.org](http://ethereum.org).

**Click to expand detailed summary**

Fredrik discussed the progress of the trillion-dollar security initiative, focusing on UX improvements and the idea of creating a standard for wallet security ratings similar to L2 BEPs. Sam shared information about existing wallet ranking criteria and offered to provide Fredrik access to the Wallet BEAT group on Barcaster. The group agreed to reconvene in two weeks for an update on the initiative, with a particular focus on UX improvements for non-crypto-native users. Vandan mentioned that they were close to launching an experimental project related to Metamask.

Vandan presented a new multi-chain API pattern that shifts away from the 1-chain-at-a-time model to allow DApps to make explicit calls to specific chains. This change aims to improve wallet capability identification and enable more graceful degradation when wallets lack certain features, addressing the current ‚Äúchicken and egg‚Äù situation of limited adoption. The experimental version is already available on the MetaMask extension, with plans to launch on the mobile app soon, and Vandan invited feedback on its potential applications for improving Ethereum UX and developer experience.

Vandan discussed the evolution of error handling and network control in DAPs, highlighting a shift towards more flexible network interactions. He explained that changes have been made to the MetaMask wallet to accommodate this, training users to focus on specific transactions rather than assuming a single network context. Vandan emphasized that developers can now create DAPs with their own UI for network selection and multi-account interactions, while MetaMask‚Äôs UI remains limited to single-account contexts.

Sam and Vandan discussed a chain-agnostic implementation of Cave 25, which serves as an alternative to the Ethereum Improvement Proposal (EIP) 1193 provider interface. Vandan highlighted its potential benefits and mentioned ongoing discussions about reflecting these standards in Ethereum proposals. Sam suggested creating a centralized documentation place for wallet APIs, similar to MDN, and proposed exploring the possibility of a subdomain on [ethereum.org](http://ethereum.org) for this purpose. Vandan agreed to consult with others in the chain-agnostic forum to determine the best approach for reflecting these standards within the Ethereum domain.

### Next Steps:

- Fredrik to send Sam his Barcaster username to get an invite to the wallet beat group.
- Fredrik to provide an update on the trillion dollar security initiative in two weeks.
- Vandan to share more details about Metamask‚Äôs new multi-chain API as it becomes available for experimental use.
- Sam to look into creating a common place to document wallet APIs, possibly on a subdomain of ethereum.org.
- Vandan to consult with the chain agnostic forum about the best approach to reflect chain agnostic standards in the Ethereum domain.

### Recording Access:

- Join Recording Session
- Download Transcript (Passcode: ysvwwr+5)
- Download Chat (Passcode: ysvwwr+5)

