---
source: magicians
topic_id: 2826
title: Council of Paris - Meta Magicians
author: boris
date: "2019-03-04"
category: Protocol Calls & happenings > Council Sessions
tags: [council-paris-2019, meta-magicians]
url: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/council-of-paris-meta-magicians/2826
views: 1481
likes: 4
posts_count: 8
---

# Council of Paris - Meta Magicians

Place where notes go from Meta Magicians at Council of Paris

Real time notes in HackMD https://hackmd.io/WSTo7yjBSKmg_ExGJYqc-A – now imported below

---

## Action Items

### Badges on Discourse

[@pet3rpan](/u/pet3rpan) did some work on this previously. Existing Github Issues:

- https://github.com/ethereum-magicians/scrolls/issues/14
- https://github.com/ethereum-magicians/scrolls/issues/37

[@jpitts](/u/jpitts) needs to create roles with permissions and hand out admin and/or mod to people who want to work on this (create Github Issue)

Team:

- @ChainSafe
- add your name

### More to be extracted from notes below…

WIP

---

Adeola:

- Berlin, Marketing
- education front – trying to move forward – realization
- trying to solve onboarding, resources against it, funding against
- positions

Maggie:

- how do things move forward?
- cadence of events
- remote friendly, no idea how things move
- implementation isn’t sexy – McKinsey vs IBM

Scott:

- Gitcoin
- funding?

Phil:

- Berlin, Parity
- project management
- how can Magicians take the burden off CoreDevs
- how to talk to CoreDevs who don’t want to be so involved – do the dirty work, so they can just do the implementation

Luke:

- Parity
- look at EthResearch – action: make a mastering ethereum structure on Github

Boris:

- 2 of 3 o
- events –

Michael:

- MyCrypto
- education
- bring more organizations in

Harry:

- MyCrypto
- Educating users on events

Kevin:

- MyCrypto
- Governance but also getting things done

Taylor:

- MyCrypto
- universal problem with remote environment – people on the inside doing things, people on the outside looking in, people on the outside
- EF sees themselves as something
- just communication – being very explicit, way to get more info, how to get involved
- empowering people to take steps
- finding people to lead the charge – ownership and altruistic

Elias:

- spending 5 years doing uncool shit – teaching people

Nathalia:

- GenesisDAO
- focus on the combo of altruistic, empowered and welcome
- being strategic
- many ants, little convergence

Peter:

- does this organization have teeth?
- started as technical governance
- how do we sustain funding without sponsors
- money in politics is problematic
- stepping up to technical review process

---

## EthMagicians Getting Stuff Done / What we Do

Infrastructure

Multisig:

Aidan

Elias

Greg

Github Issue

Github Issues is inaccessible to random community members

Is it a bad thing?

Anonymity is important

- Forum mods and rules of engagement dev – roberts rules of order – how to have civil discourse
- Badges – create EthMagicians
- Intro forum
Aidan, Peter, Luke

Elias:

each community has its own rules

lists of stewards in different areas “I will teach you how this works”

Chaals:

Anonymous participation is hairy

Aidan:

Badges!

Kevin:

not time to be exclusive

you are forcing a lot of people out

onboard – as long as people are checking it

Maggie:

working with people get stuff done by some date – great

timelines deadlines accountability

what we use to get things done

Distinction?

Pseudonmyous – yes, not anonymous

Lead by example

mobs on Reddit

Can solve them – find good ways without gatekeepers

Adeo:

getting shit done

Aidan:

we got pepe’d – need to start hardening

What are magicians getting

## Governance

intro

Greg:

EIP who needs – Audience Review

Phil:

EIP that came out of signaling out of Denver – clear action item

Peter:

EthMagicians – house discussions

Not secret meetings and cabals accusing

1. Two or three teams came out of Berlin and Prague – spinning off
Signaling apps, self organizing
Tentagraph – link from Peter
Aragon grant, POC
2. More formalized – what is meant to be? Technical review of EIPs – needs to be its own thing – EIP editors more formal group

Maggie:

What makes people feel rewarded? Or formal?

Adi:

Have discussions of great action items – wait and hope

Cycle of waiting

Giving people authority or roles

Aidan:

Don’t want to formalize roles

Elias:

follow up make sure stuff gets done

Remco:

emphasize need for a technical forum

that is only accessible to people who are accesible

private forums

Boris – email, EVM discussions, etc

IETF uses mailing lists

Mike:

boards with specific technical people

core problems with EthMagicians

What it is has bloated – a lot of the problem with delivering

no incentive

Taylor:

priorities

don’t commit – can’t make myself do this, over everything that happens at my company

hard, but we have to realize that this is a priority for certain

TJ Rush:

understand

read only

Peter:

e.g fund recovery, without sock puppet levels of feedback that this should die

eg brigading and banned from a variety of channels

troll hunting

Remco:

Cambridge – lunch by Stephen Hawking

Entry exam – open to anyone

Maggie:

incentives – working at Consensys

Chaals:

don’t make exclusive venues

go troll hunting

exit barrier

Aidan:

ETH2 – no one asked us to work on beacon chain

if this is the future of Ethereum – a self organizing

Taylor:

random people doing shit for me

specific instructions

put a bounty up – do 1, 2, 3, 4

translations

Adeo:

then why do we feel stuff isn’t happening?

Taylor:

great if there are clear instructions – eg. do a google sheet

Nathalia:

curation

Adeo:

education on how / what to do

Kevin:

quantity of work vs how much stuff needs to get done

everyone wants to have their own project

no incentive to it – incentivizing people, there are very few to get stuff done

Onboard new people? Education!

Scott:

Advocate for bounties

Surface and show issues – know that it exists

Taylor:

If a person puts money on the issue, explicit directions

Phil:

afraid of incentive structures

glory in there hills

success stories – if an EIP gets implemented – being involved – ear of CoreDevs

Do the work

Elias:

known about EthMagicians

MP messaged me, can you deal with education

Link – OK, is this OK?

Gave me the confidence

Stewards, small groups

Aidan:

we must not want things

Boris:

event organizing

TJ Rush:

Provide an interface for making good bounties?

Scott:

stewardship

question – how do we pick

Education - Elias volunt

Mike:

curating active rings

Adeo:

thinking beyond the audience here

beyond active people

Elias:

don’t have time, recruit more

curation

Charles:

millions of people have done open source

basically free and inefficient

ton of work

Not too much process

Boris: Call focused in 2 weeks

Fred:

what are we trying to get done?

On CoreDevs

A year ago, CoreDevs call better, less political discussions – is this implementable or not

CoreDevs meetup at Prague

January –

Greg:

People working on EIPs can pull together help

Very hard if you’re working on something, find other people who have skill and knowledge

When you got to CoreDevs

Fred / Boris:

Action: why should CoreDevs

Expertise gathering

Long form discussion

why / how

Elias:

doesn’t need to be define

platformed for different discussions

Rings

Greg:

obvious about recruiting CoreDevs

People

CoreDevs

---

Adi: breakthrough Education

Adi: Frustration on Ethereum roadmap – making decisions?

Nathalie: Genesis DAO - 170 people

## Replies

**409H** (2019-03-04):

I’m new to Ethereum-Magicians (and Discourse) but I really liked Aidens idea of issuing badges to support [anon] contributors with a trust-level.

I’m unsure on the etiquette of noise control in replies but;

- How would we get badges implemented?
- Who would distribute them for each event/circle - could this go in hand with https://kickback.events/ by https://twitter.com/makoto_inoue or would that make things more complicated/formal than they should be?

It also felt we were trying to solve the bystander-effect without entertaining the idea of stewards having delegating powers/some control of leadership to put accountability to action items not being actioned (get shit done)

---

**boris** (2019-03-04):

Less about anon contributors, more about being OK with pseudonymous participation. Badges get rewarded out of the box with Discourse and I don’t believe we’ve tweaked any settings. [@ChainSafe](/u/chainsafe)

There are several issues in the GitHub queue already about badges and [@pet3rpan](/u/pet3rpan) was excited about this too.

I already talked to [@jpitts](/u/jpitts) about more mods on the forum — we’ll get an issue filed around that and nominate a group to work on this. Great to have you participate if you’re interested!

More GitHub links later ![:wink:](https://ethereum-magicians.org/images/emoji/twitter/wink.png?v=9)

---

**jpitts** (2019-03-13):

RE: groups on this Forum…

We have some basics on this and it works pretty well. Are there thoughts about who would like to share the admin role of the Forum? Also, what should the process be for any new groups to set up?

This is a listing of the current groups we have in place:

[![image](https://ethereum-magicians.org/uploads/default/optimized/2X/8/8b5fbf2e7c25cb838ec4fb91467a060b7b44dc3c_2_639x499.png)image1190×930 28.9 KB](https://ethereum-magicians.org/uploads/default/8b5fbf2e7c25cb838ec4fb91467a060b7b44dc3c)

---

**boris** (2019-03-13):

Let’s not use this comment thread for this – please start a new topic with this and gather your co-conspirators. And if / when you get to action items, Github Issues as tracking items.

---

**jpitts** (2019-03-13):

Ok, makes sense, I’ll do that!

---

**ChainSafe** (2019-03-13):

Sorry I am only responding now. I do believe we could be a little bit more specific with our badges. We can really do whatever we want with [them](https://meta.discourse.org/t/what-are-badges/32540).

---

**ravachol70** (2019-06-04):

these badges: mint them, mine them, qualify them, then monetize them.

