---
source: magicians
topic_id: 3467
title: Eip-1283 / 1706 AMA
author: timbeiko
date: "2019-07-10"
category: EIPs
tags: [istanbul]
url: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-1283-1706-ama/3467
views: 1271
likes: 1
posts_count: 3
---

# Eip-1283 / 1706 AMA

In order to move the conversation forward about EIP-1283/1706, I propose that we organize an AMA on Ethereum Magicians for people to voice their concerns about the current proposals and (hopefully!) come to an agreement on how to move forward with this proposal.

[@sorpaas](/u/sorpaas) shared this for context on the AllCoreDevs gitter:

> As a way to save time for ACD, do you think it would be possible to resolve EIP-1283’s item ACTION 62.6 off the meeting? I think most people have come agreement that:
>
>
> We want some form of net gas metering before state rent because many people have asked, and
> We want to apply it without account versioning so that older contracts can take advantage of it.

> The only remaining thing I think is the documentation issue – whether we need to create a new EIP or using existing EIPs and mark it in hard fork meta EIP is enough. This is a rather minor issue, and I just have really strong opinion that we should not create new EIPs for this. My argument hasn’t changed:
> There’s no spec change in either EIP-1283 or EIP-1706. Creating new EIPs will be direct copying, and will most likely create confusions.
> We should trace features enabling/disabling via hard fork meta EIPs, and specification EIPs like 1283/1706 should only care about the actual specifications.
> I remember we nearly reached some form of agreement on this in a previous Gitter discussions, but there were several new positions popping up in the last ACD meeting.

I propose we have an AMA some day next week, before the next AllCoreDevs (July 15-18th) at 14:00 UTC (AllCoreDevs time) to go over these issues. If people have concerns and cannot make the AMA time, they can add them to the thread in advance.

Here is a poll to decide on the date:

- Mon July 15
- Tue July 16
- Wed July 17
- Thu July 18

0
voters

## Replies

**timbeiko** (2019-07-11):

Given that both Tuesday and Wednesday are equally popular, and that Wednesday is “devcon ticket” day, let’s do this on Tuesday July 16th at 14:00 UTC.

Feel free to add questions about the EIP in this thread prior, and we’ll have [@sorpaas](/u/sorpaas) here on Tuesday to answer them + other live questions.

---

**haydenadams** (2019-07-16):

Hey! I just want to voice my support for EIP-1283 / 1706 and encourage finalizing the decision to add it to Istanbul soon since it significantly impacts ongoing dapp designs.

I agree with both:

> Creating new EIPs will be direct copying, and will most likely create confusions.

and

> We should trace features enabling/disabling via hard fork meta EIPs, and specification EIPs like 1283/1706 should only care about the actual specifications.

I know there has been some talk of versioning. Personally, I come down strongly on the side of gas metering applying retroactively to all contracts.

